Okay,
guys,
we're just going to step out from the normal laters for a second just to have a look at how
Excel deals with dates and times.
Now,
set this spreadsheet up,
which you condemn load from the resource is section on.
All I'm gonna do is have the exactly the same date entered in here.
I'm just gonna reference this cell in all of these cells on then reference this.
So in this cell in this cell now,
I've already formatted all these cells up here with the formats that you can see over here
.
So this one we can seize 25 dash December,
which is formatted as dd dash m m.
So,
if I were to reference that cell,
just know you can see that if we formatted the date as just d d,
we would get 25 because 25th is the day of the month.
So if I reference to sell above it,
you can see by using the format d d d.
We get some the abbreviated day for suddenly.
If I formatted it as four days,
you can see that we get the name in full surround insane some.
It's a Sunday,
and similarly,
when we apply the format M m m,
we get the abbreviated day for the month on.
Then when I format is as m M.
M m.
Four day four,
EMS,
we get beat months name.
We get the month name in fault.
Okay,
Now,
similarly,
we conform at it is why?
Why on we can see that we get 2000 we can see that we get 16 which is the abbreviated year
for 2016.
Or similarly.
We can have 2016 my type in four wise in the format in just so you clearheaded that works.
Let's just choose the format cells up.
She can see there that we've entered a custom formats of four wives that so you change the
formatted now in this cell,
it's formatted as four days,
so we'll get the full day name de de.
So we get the two digits of the monthly day number four EMS,
so we'll get the full month name and four wise.
So we get the full year name so they can see that the 25th of December 2016 is actually
some day 25 December 2016.
Now is the interesting thing.
This cell is formatted as a number with no decimal places so willing it's enter there.
You can see that we get the result of 4002.
Sorry,
42,000 729.
You may be wondering what 42,729 has to do with Christmas Day 2016.
Well,
that's because when Excel deals with dates,
it counts on each day after the turn of the century 1900.
So 42,729 is heavily.
Days have elapsed since the turn of the century in the ninth in 1900.
So if it just changed that there,
too the first of January 1900 you'll see that we get one because that's the first day of
the last century.
Is that last century?
I think it's the last century.
Eso Consequently,
if we went to the several 25th of December 1900 you can see that we have 360 days since the
turn of the century.
So they go,
you can see that That's the way the Excel uses dates.
So if we put today's date in,
which is the fourth of the 8th 2016 We're now 42,586 days from the turn of the first
century.
That sorry,
the turn of the last century first centric,
OK name similarly at below are formatted this cell to a number of game,
but this time to five decimal places.
So it's just reference that soul there.
We can still see that we have 42,000 586 but we have a bunch of decimals after its or a
bunch of zeros after it on.
That's because what we're actually looking at in this cell just here.
If let me let me just have one more in there.
Let's just say day they cash move off.
This year it was Taylor's minutes,
minutes on second group's second seconds.
So let me just copy that format in their copy on the plate,
this self using the form that sells custom and hopefully we can type it now.
Okay,
so now we just need to reference that self.
so now we can see that we have the fourth of the 8th 16 0000 on.
That's because when you enter a date into excel by default,
it knows it to be midnight on that particular day so far to come in here and hit a space
and put 09 30 00 you can see that our number has actually changed to 42,508.
6.39583 That may straight strike you was out until we have a look at her Excel actually
deals with time.
Okay,
so over here,
I'm just going to be reference in this cell,
this e five cell,
and this time I'm gonna have a look at it in five decimal places.
So this particular cell here has been formatted to a number format with five decimal places
.
So let's just go ahead and reference that cell and we can see that that 1700 hours five
oclock in the afternoon is where talented 0.70833 Now the reason for that is that Excel
deals with time as fractions of days.
So if you have to change the time here,
it's a midnight.
You can see that we have a zero fraction of a day.
If I want to change it to mid day,
you can see that it actually deals with that as 0.5 with lows is a does occur in so half a
name.
Similarly,
if we were to type 6 a.m. we can see that that's course of a day.
So it 0.25 Oops,
too far.
And if I went to six o'clock in the afternoon,
you can see that we have 3/4 of the day s o.
It will work that out to lose and lose the decimal places,
depending on which time you entered.
And also it will go to the detail of having seconds calculated.
So if we said 07 a.m. at 40 minutes past on 55 seconds,
we can see that that is 0.30 to 03 off a day of a whole day.
Now the interesting thing Let me just have a look here.
Let's just check This is chance at like six am for a second,
we can see that we have quarter of a day at 6 a.m. Because course of the day has gone by
six oclock in the morning.
But if we actually have a look at that formatted as a date,
so this.
So here's for matters.
Dee dee dee dee Dash or space DD dash Mm mm.
And on and on.
And why,
Why,
Why?
So we have a Saturday,
the zero with of January 1900 at six o'clock in the morning.
And that's because when Excel deals with time,
not dates,
just time,
it actually assumes that all times on the zero with of January in the turn of the century
So all of your times will be dated on a date that doesn't actually exist,
which is 00 January 1900 s.
Oh,
there's a curious fact for you.
So that's the My Excel deals with dates and times.
Dates are always whole numbers or call numbers with a remain that if you enter time to.
So the dates came some from the turn of the Century 1900 which is why you get a peculiar
answer like 42,586 for the Fourth of August,
and time is always recorded if you only enter a time as the zero with of January 1900.
Okay,
there's one.
You can thrill your friends with the cocktail parties,
and I'll see you in the next lecture.